building-images.md, before:

# Multi-Architecture Support

## Overview

SeloraBox supports both **x86_64** and **ARM64 (aarch64)** architectures as production targets:

- **x86_64-linux**: Traditional PC hardware, Intel NUCs, mini PCs
- **aarch64-linux**: ARM64 hardware (Raspberry Pi 5, ARM servers, Apple Silicon VMs)

Both architectures are built and published by CI to https://downloads.selorahomes.com/

## Target Hardware

### x86_64
- Intel NUCs
- Mini PCs (Beelink, GEEKOM, etc.)
- Any x86_64 system with UEFI boot

### ARM64 (aarch64)
- Raspberry Pi 5 (with NVMe for best performance)
- ARM servers (Ampere, AWS Graviton)
- Apple Silicon Macs (via UTM/Parallels for testing)

## Building ISOs

### On Mac (Direct Build - ARM64)

```bash
# Build ARM64 ISO directly on your Mac (fast!)
nix build .#packages.aarch64-linux.installer-iso

# Result will be at ./result/iso/selorabox-installer-*.iso
```

This is the **recommended approach for development** on Apple Silicon Macs:
- No VM overhead
- Uses native ARM64 architecture
- Fast builds using binary caches
- Test in UTM, Parallels, or other ARM64 VM software

### On Mac (Lima VM - x86_64)

```bash
# For testing x86_64 builds (slower)
limactl start lima-nix.yaml --name nix-builder
limactl shell nix-builder nix build .#packages.x86_64-linux.installer-iso
```

Only needed if you specifically need to test x86_64 builds locally.

### On Linux

```bash
# Builds for your native architecture automatically
nix build .#installer-iso

# Or explicitly:
nix build .#packages.x86_64-linux.installer-iso    # x86_64
nix build .#packages.aarch64-linux.installer-iso   # ARM64
```

### In CI

CI builds both architectures and uploads to S3:

```bash
nix build .#packages.x86_64-linux.installer-iso
nix build .#packages.aarch64-linux.installer-iso
```

ISOs are available at https://downloads.selorahomes.com/

## NixOS Configurations

The flake provides separate configurations for each architecture:

```
nixosConfigurations:
  selorabox                    # x86_64 (production)
  selorabox-installer          # x86_64 installer
  selorabox-aarch64            # ARM64 (development)
  selorabox-installer-aarch64  # ARM64 installer
```

## Packages

All packages are built for both architectures:

```bash
packages.x86_64-linux:
  - installer-iso
  - system
  - fosrl-newt
  - qrencode-large

packages.aarch64-linux:
  - installer-iso
  - system
  - fosrl-newt
  - qrencode-large
```

## Development Workflow

### Typical Mac Development Flow

1. **Edit code** on your Mac
2. **Build ARM64 ISO** directly: `nix build .#packages.aarch64-linux.installer-iso`
3. **Test in ARM VM** (UTM, Parallels, etc.)
4. **Push to GitLab**
5. **CI builds both architectures**
6. **ISOs uploaded to S3** at https://downloads.selorahomes.com/

### Why Not Cross-Compile?

You might ask: "Why not cross-compile x86_64 on Mac?"

Cross-compilation works, but:
- Many packages don't have cross-compiled binary caches
- Builds from source are slow
- More likely to hit build failures
- ARM64 ISOs test the same functionality faster

Since the NixOS configuration is architecture-agnostic, testing on ARM64 validates the same system behavior as x86_64.

## Architecture Parity

Both architectures use identical NixOS modules and configuration. The only differences are:
- Binary packages compiled for respective architecture
- Architecture-specific bootloader configuration

NixOS abstracts hardware differences, ensuring consistent behavior across platforms.

## Downloads

Production ISOs for both architectures are available at:
https://downloads.selorahomes.com/

Files (version is either a git tag or short commit SHA):
- `selorabox-<version>-x86_64.iso` - For x86_64 hardware
- `selorabox-<version>-aarch64.iso` - For ARM64 hardware
- `.sha256` checksum files for verification

Commit message:

Add Raspberry Pi 4 SD image build and support
Introduces a dedicated Raspberry Pi 4 SD card image with a new NixOS configuration and CI workflow for building and releasing the image. Updates documentation to describe the new image, adds validation and error handling to Home Assistant image download, and improves log categorization in log-reporter. Minor whitespace and formatting adjustments in network-watchdog and other modules.

building-images.md, after:

# Multi-Architecture Support

## Overview

SeloraBox supports both **x86_64** and **ARM64 (aarch64)** architectures as production targets:

- **x86_64-linux**: Traditional PC hardware, Intel NUCs, mini PCs
- **aarch64-linux**: ARM64 hardware (Raspberry Pi 5, ARM servers, Apple Silicon VMs)

Both architectures are built and published by CI to https://downloads.selorahomes.com/

## Target Hardware

### x86_64
- Intel NUCs
- Mini PCs (Beelink, GEEKOM, etc.)
- Any x86_64 system with UEFI boot

### ARM64 (aarch64)
- Raspberry Pi 4 (8GB recommended, use SD card or USB SSD)
- Raspberry Pi 5 (with NVMe for best performance)
- ARM servers (Ampere, AWS Graviton)
- Apple Silicon Macs (via UTM/Parallels for testing)

### Raspberry Pi 4 (Native SD Image)
For Raspberry Pi 4, use the dedicated SD card image (not the generic aarch64 ISO):
```bash
nix build .#packages.aarch64-linux.rpi4-image
```
This creates a `.img.zst` file that can be flashed directly to an SD card with native Pi 4 boot support.

## Building ISOs

### On Mac (Direct Build - ARM64)

```bash
# Build ARM64 ISO directly on your Mac (fast!)
nix build .#packages.aarch64-linux.installer-iso

# Result will be at ./result/iso/selorabox-installer-*.iso
```

This is the **recommended approach for development** on Apple Silicon Macs:
- No VM overhead
- Uses native ARM64 architecture
- Fast builds using binary caches
- Test in UTM, Parallels, or other ARM64 VM software

### On Mac (Lima VM - x86_64)

```bash
# For testing x86_64 builds (slower)
limactl start lima-nix.yaml --name nix-builder
limactl shell nix-builder nix build .#packages.x86_64-linux.installer-iso
```

Only needed if you specifically need to test x86_64 builds locally.

### On Linux

```bash
# Builds for your native architecture automatically
nix build .#installer-iso

# Or explicitly:
nix build .#packages.x86_64-linux.installer-iso    # x86_64
nix build .#packages.aarch64-linux.installer-iso   # ARM64
```

### In CI

CI builds both architectures and uploads to S3:

```bash
nix build .#packages.x86_64-linux.installer-iso
nix build .#packages.aarch64-linux.installer-iso
```

ISOs are available at https://downloads.selorahomes.com/

## NixOS Configurations

The flake provides separate configurations for each architecture:

```
nixosConfigurations:
  selorabox                    # x86_64 (production)
  selorabox-installer          # x86_64 installer
  selorabox-aarch64            # ARM64 (development)
  selorabox-installer-aarch64  # ARM64 installer
```

## Packages

All packages are built for both architectures:

```bash
packages.x86_64-linux:
  - installer-iso
  - system
  - fosrl-newt
  - qrencode-large

packages.aarch64-linux:
  - installer-iso
  - system
  - fosrl-newt
  - qrencode-large
```

## Development Workflow

### Typical Mac Development Flow

1. **Edit code** on your Mac
2. **Build ARM64 ISO** directly: `nix build .#packages.aarch64-linux.installer-iso`
3. **Test in ARM VM** (UTM, Parallels, etc.)
4. **Push to GitLab**
5. **CI builds both architectures**
6. **ISOs uploaded to S3** at https://downloads.selorahomes.com/

### Why Not Cross-Compile?

You might ask: "Why not cross-compile x86_64 on Mac?"

Cross-compilation works, but:
- Many packages don't have cross-compiled binary caches
- Builds from source are slow
- More likely to hit build failures
- ARM64 ISOs test the same functionality faster

Since the NixOS configuration is architecture-agnostic, testing on ARM64 validates the same system behavior as x86_64.

## Architecture Parity

Both architectures use identical NixOS modules and configuration. The only differences are:
- Binary packages compiled for respective architecture
- Architecture-specific bootloader configuration

NixOS abstracts hardware differences, ensuring consistent behavior across platforms.

## Downloads

Production ISOs for both architectures are available at:
https://downloads.selorahomes.com/

Files (version is either a git tag or short commit SHA):
- `selorabox-<version>-x86_64.iso` - For x86_64 hardware
- `selorabox-<version>-aarch64.iso` - For ARM64 hardware
- `.sha256` checksum files for verification
